= MongoMapper::Plugins::Sanitize

Tiny plugin for MongoMapper to sanitize strings before validation.

== Requires

* MongoMapper
* Sanitize

== Usage

Either load it into all models, or individual models:

    # add to all models
    MongoMapper::Document.plugin(MongoMapper::Plugins::Sanitize)

    # add to a specific model
    plugin MongoMapper::Plugins::Sanitize

Once it's loaded into a model, configure with 'sanitize'

    sanitize :list, :of, :keys

This will use the default Sanitize config, if you want to override then set the :config option:

    # Use the built-in Sanitize::Config::RESTRICTED configuration
    sanitize :title, :config => Sanitize::Config::RESTRICTED

    # Use a custom configuration
    sanitize :description, :config => {:elements => ['a', 'span']}

The original text is stored as original_#{key}, for example:

    class Item
      key :description, String

      sanitize :description
    end

    item = Item.create(:description => "some <b>text</b>")
    item.description => "some text"
    item.original_description => "some <b>text</b>"

IMPORTANT - calling sanitize sets up original_#{key} as a copy of the existing key if it exists
If the key doesn't yet exist, it will assume it's a String field, so if you use something different then make sure to define it first.

You can disable this behaviour by setting :keep_original to false

    sanitize :description, :keep_original => false

See the Sanitize Docs (https://github.com/rgrove/sanitize) for more details on the different configuration options.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself in another branch so I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Install

 $ gem install mm-sanitize

== Copyright

See LICENSE for details.